Revision Date: April 10, 2019 
SAFETY DATA SHEET 
MCT OIL 
1. PRODUCT INFORMATION AND COMPANY IDENTIFICATION
Product Name: 
INCI Name: 
CAS Number: 
Recommended Use: 
Company: 
MCT OIL 
Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride 
73398-61-5 
Food additives, Skin cosmetics 
Lab Alley, LLC
22111 Hwy 71 West, Ste 601
Spicewood TX  78669
Tel: 512-668-9918
2. HAZARD IDENTIFICATION
GHS CLASSIFICATION: 
This product does not meet the definition of a hazardous substance or preparation as defined by 
the European Union Council 
Directives 67/548/EEC, 1999/45/EC, 1272/2008/EC and subsequent Directives. 
GHS LABEL ELEMENTS 
Signal word None Required 
Pictogram None Required 
Hazard Statement None Required 
Precautionary Statement None Required 
3. COMPOSITION/INFORMATION ON INGREDIENTS
Components CAS Number EC Number Percent 
Caprylic / Capric Triglyceride 73398-61-5 277-452-2 100 
Buy MCT Oil online at https://www.laballey.com/collections/mct-oil
Revision Date: April 10, 2019 
4. FIRST AID MEASURES
Necessary Measures for Routes of Exposure: 
Inhalation  If breathing becomes difficult, remove victim to fresh air. If 
necessary, use artificial respiration to support vital functions. Seek 
medical attention. 
Skin Wash skin thoroughly with soap and water after handling. Seek 
medical attention if irritation develops and persists. 
Eye If product enters the eyes, flush with plenty of water or eye wash 
solution for several minutes. Seek medical attention if irritation 
persists. 
Ingestion This product is food grade. However, if product is swallowed and if 
you feel unwell, seek medical advice. 
5. FIRE FIGHTING MEASURES
Suitable Extinguishing Media 
Water spray, fog, CO2, dry chemical or alcohol resistant foam. 
Unsuitable Extinguishing Media 
Do not use a solid water stream as it may scatter and spread fire. 
Specific Hazards In Arising From The Chemical 
Irritating and toxic fumes may be produced at high temperatures. Use of water may result if the 
formation of a toxic aqueous solution. Do not allow run-off from firefighting to enter drains or 
water courses. Do not use heavy water stream. 
Explosive Sensitivity to Mechanical Impact: No 
Explosive Sensitivity to Static Discharge: No 
Special Protective Equipment For Fire Fighters 
Firefighters must use standard protective equipment including flame retardant coat, helmet with 
face shield, gloves, rubber boots, and in enclosed spaces, SCBA. Structural firefighters 
protective clothing will only provide limited protection. Wear self-contained breathing apparatus 
with a full face-piece operated in the positive pressure demand mode when fighting fires. 
6. ACCIDENTAL RELEASE MEASURES
Personal Precautions Use cautious judgment when cleaning up spill. Wear suitable 
protective clothing, gloves, and eye/face protection. 
Environmental Precautions Construct a dike to prevent spreading. Keep out of sewers, storm 
drains, surface waters, and soils. 
Revision Date: April 10, 2019 
Methods For Containment 
Small Spills: Collect material via broom or mop. Place in tightly sealed 
containers for proper disposal. 
Approach spill areas with caution. 
If liquid was introduced, create a dike or trench to contain material. 
Soak up with absorbent material such as clay, sand or other 
suitable non-reactive material. 
Large Spills: Place in leak-proof containers. Seal tightly for proper disposal. 
Dispose of in accordance with Federal, State, and local hazardous 
waste disposal regulations. 
7. HANDLING AND STORAGE
Handling To prevent eye contact under the foreseeable conditions of use, 
wear appropriate safety eyewear. When handling, do not eat, 
drink, or smoke. Wash thoroughly after handling. 
Storage Technical measures: Keep container closed. 
Recommended Storage Conditions: Store in a cool, dry place. 
This material must be stored at room temperature (23 - 25°C). It 
should not be exposed to excessive heat or cold. Do not freeze. 
Specific Uses Comply with the regulations and product data sheet. No specific 
recommendations. Apply the above handling guidelines. 
8. EXPOSURE CONTROLS/PERSONAL PROTECTION
Engineering Controls Local exhaust is recommended 
Mechanical – may be necessary if working at elevated 
temperatures or enclosed areas. 
Personal Protective Equipment 
General Always observe good personal hygiene measures, such as 
washing after handling the material and before eating, drinking, 
and/or smoking. Routinely wash work clothing and protective 
equipment to remove contaminants. 
Eye/Face Protection Goggles or face shield with goggles, dependent upon potential 
exposure. 
Skin Protection Nitrile gloves are recommended. 
Dependent upon degree of potential exposure, additional 
protective equipment maybe required, such as chemical boots and 
full protective clothing. 
Revision Date: April 10, 2019 
Respiratory Protection None required for ambient temperature, although an appropriate 
NIOSH/MSHA air purifying respirator should be used if a mist or 
vapour is generated. 
Warning: Air purifying respirators do not protect workers in 
oxygen-deficient atmospheres. 
9. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES
Appearance 
Form Clear to light yellow liquid 
Physical State Liquid 
Color Clear to light yellow 
Odor Characteristic Odor 
Odor Threshold Not available 
Safety Data 
pH Not available 
Boiling Point Not available 
Flash Point > 200°C
Evaporation Rate Not available 
Flammability (Train Fire) Not available 
Flammability Limits In Air, Lower, % By Volume Not available 
Flammability Limits In Air, Upper, % By Volume Not available 
Vapor Pressure Not available 
Vapor Density Not available 
Relative Density at 20°C 0.91 ± 0.01 
Solubility in Water Insoluble 
Auto-ignition Temperature Not available 
Decomposition Temperature Not available 
Kinematic Viscosity at 40°C Not available 
Density Not available 
10. STABILITY AND REACTIVITY
Chemical Stability Stable at normal conditions 
Possibility Of Hazardous Reactions 
Hazardous polymerization does not occur. 
Conditions to Avoid No dangerous reactions known under use of normal conditions. 
Avoid extreme heat. 
Hazardous Decomposition Products 
No hazardous decomposition products if instruction for storage and handling are followed. 
Revision Date: April 10, 2019 
11. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Toxicological Effects: 
Toxicity Data: No data available 
Suspected Cancer Agent:   Ingredients within this product are not found on the following lists: 
FEDERAL OSHA Z LIST, NTP, IARC, or CAL/OSHA an therefore 
are not considered to be, nor suspected to be, cancer-causing 
agents by these agencies. 
Irritancy: Skin: Not expected to be an irritant 
Eyes: Not expected to be an irritant 
Sensitization to the Product: 
This product is not expected to cause skin sensitization. 
Reproductive Toxicity: No specific information is available concerning the effects of this 
product and its components on the human reproductive system. 
Other information Not available 
12. ECOLOGICAL INFORMATION
Toxicity: No data available. 
Persistence and Degradability: 
No specific data available on this product. 
Bioaccumulative Potential: 
No specific data available on this product. 
Mobility in Soil: 
No specific data available on this product. 
Other Adverse Effects: 
No data available. 
Water Endangerment Class: 
At present, there are no eco-toxicological assessments for this product. 
13. DISPOSAL CONSIDERATIONS
Product Disposal 
Prohibition Avoid release to the environment. 
Revision Date: April 10, 2019 
Advice On Disposal 
Chemical additions, processing or otherwise altering this material may make the waste 
management information presented in this MSDS incomplete, inaccurate or otherwise 
inappropriate. Please be advised that state and local requirements for waste disposal may be 
more restrictive or otherwise different from federal laws and regulations. Consult state and local 
regulations regarding the proper disposal of this material. 
Dispose of in accordance with local regulations. 
14. TRANSPORT INFORMATION
DOT Not regulated 
IMDG Not regulated 
IATA Not regulated 
Note: The above regulatory prescriptions are those valid on the date of publication of this sheet. 
Given the possible evolution of transport regulations for hazardous materials, it would be 
advisable to check their validity with your sales office. 
15. REGULATORY INFORMATION
OSHA Status 
This product is not hazardous under the criteria of the Federal OSHA Hazard 
Communication Standard. However, thermal processing and decomposition fumes from 
this product may be hazardous. 
European Economic Community Information: 
This product does not meet the definition of a hazardous substance or preparation as defined by 
the European Union Council Directives 67/548/EEC, 1999/45/EC, 1272/2008/EC and 
subsequent Directives. See Section 2 for Details. 
16. OTHER INFORMATION
All statements, technical information and recommendations contained herein are based 
 
or completeness thereof is not guaranteed and no warranty of any kind is made with 
respect thereto. This information is not intended as a license to operate under or a 
recommendation to practice or infringe any patent of this company or others covering 
any process, composition of matter or use. Since we shall have no control of the use of 
the product described here in, we assume no Liability for loss or damage incurred from 
the proper or improper use of such product. 
on tests and data which Lab Alley LLC believes to be currently reliable, but this accuracy